02/2023	2/2023	SWEDEN	ANTLER	Entrepreneur in residence	Founders programme where I explored and developed deep tech proposals focused on the following technologies and industries;  - Nuclear energy optimization  with an emphasis on SMRs /small medium reactors - Smart grids design  deployment and energy optimization (Ra) - Quantum computing for complex problems optimization (QBabes)  Skills: Entrepreneurship · Lean Startup · Design Thinking
11/2021	2/2023	SWEDEN	SAHLGRENSKA	Information Technology Strategist	Helping Sweden's largest healthcare institution support medical professionals in the digitization of the sector  automation of some redundant non-value added tasks  better data visualization and more. Technologies we explore and test for patients and healthcare professionals benefits are -but not limited to- AI  AR VR  IoT.
12/2020	Today	CZECH REPUBLIC (HYBRID)	EUSPA	Space Downstream Market Innovation and Entrepreneurship specialist (Space technology  innovation  entrepreneurship)	I work as an on-site resource for EUSPA to provide market development and downstream segment innovation services to space technology sector participants (deep tech startup founders). My main focus is on connecting space data and space technology to markets through start-up coaching  entrepreneurship support programme execution  business strategy  skills development curriculum architecture and actual content development  M&E  go-to-market strategy. Innovations coming out of the programme connect the geolocation-based systems built on navigation  position and timing data fetched from satellites  along with Earth Observation satellite data  to user needs.We've launched a Space & Metaverse initiative where I connect with web3 builders and explore synergies between blockchain products and space tech for real-life use. In this context I gave a talk at IPFS Camp 2022 during the LabWeek 2022.
12/2020	12/2020	SWEDEN	DESIRED SOLUTIONS	Technology and Business Innovation consultant	Boutique technology innovation and strategy consultancy delivering data analytics  data visualization (using GIS / on QGIS  Power BI  python programming)  operations support to innovative organizations  training  coaching  business and prototyping services for technology-based products (leveraging AI - Machine Learning or Deep Learning  Blockchain  Internet of Things  Augmented and Virtual Reality  GIS) to public and private organizations. This versatile role enables me to contribute to cross functional  cross cultural distributed teams  impacting the tech  business  financial and strategic aspects of the organizations. Tools and methods applied are Lean  human-centered Design  Agile. Delivering for clients startup mentoring and IT project management (e-commerce strategy).
02/2020	12/2020	SWEDEN	SLAGGAN	IT and business advisor	Advising and assisting in the technology and business aspects of the launch  go-to-market strategy and resources mobilization of the partner startup’s social application for geolocation and tailor made on-demand live media streaming.
11/2019	11/2019	RWANDA	AFRICAN BLOCKCHAIN INSTITUTE	Board Member  Advisor (volunteer)	Helping and guiding ABI in its mission to educate  raise awareness  train communities on distributed ledger technology (DLT)  governance and applications (in particular for cryptocurrencies  logistic  proof-of-origin  single identity or CBDC)  online and hybrid.
05/2018	12/2019	RWANDA	NIRDA	Senior Industrial Technology Expert Advisor	- I lead the country's first STEM laboratory and startups incubation / acceleration programme  to tackle complex wicked challenges in the context of Industry 4.0  Entrepreneurship and Innovation.  - Oversight on project documentation  facility architectural and electrical design  equipment’s bill of materials (BoM) / bill of quantities (BoQ)  future horizon scanning  product (software & hardware) and business development using a wide range of tools (CAD  data analytics+GIS visualization mapping tools  3D machines etc.). - Technical Working Group member for several Government of Rwanda’s innovation technology strategies. - Some of my achievements include INNOVATE 4 INDUSTRY RWANDA Hackathon  an Open Innovation Challenges for smart hardware startups  and STEM 4 INDUSTRY Hub incubation programme (first cohort hosted at the GIZ-GoR DigiCenter).
2/2018	05/2018	SWEDEN	IQVIA	Data officer	Data collection for medical and pharmaceutical market research on potential French speaking client leads.
11/2017	02/2018	SWEDEN	SMILE INCUBATOR	Entrepreneur in residence	MAMIO c/o Health2B Accelerator program  SmiLe Incubator  Medicon Village ​ ​(Lund  Sweden)​ ​www.health2b.life Team member  project lead for MAMIO  an AI early-stage tech startup built around its image-to-voice software solution aiming to enable our elderly feel independent in their medicine intake.  Realizations were: ○ ​ ​Business acceleration  development (APIs integration  app mockup and prototyping  customer journey exploration - acquisition - retention  prospects outreach etc.) ○ Use of Artificial Intelligence cloud services (after cross comparison between main providers - Microsoft Azure  IBM) implementing state-of-the-art machine learning algorithms for image recognition  OCR (optical character recognition)  TTS (text-to-speech) and browser-embedded speech components.
03/2017	7/2017	ITALY	IN-RECRUITING	Business intelligence analyst	In the framework of the EYE program European Young Entrepreneurship (EYE) program  I collaborated with an Applicant Tracking System (ATS) company  In-Recruiting Ltd.  active in the HR Tech.  Realizations were: - Exploring innovative ways with the partners to bring more traction to his business by implementing Growth Hacking techniques  qualitative and quantitative analysis of the company’s main competitors. I also applied data mining and sentiment analysis on specific company's social media activity. In addition to learning more on the UI and UX side  I have been exploring the optimal strategy to increasing website visitors' conversion rate along the marketing funnel. On the social media strategy  registered to Facebook for Work for use in community management. On the SaaS pricing optimal strategy  I develop a more efficient plan drawn from a Multi-criteria Decision Analysis MCDA for best pricing plan models to inspire from  and a bit of regression applied to best identify the product's key features along with their weighted importance in the customer final choice.
09/2016	12/2016	BELGIUM	MICROSOFT INNOVATION CENTER	Entrepreneur in residence	My team and I won the Prize for the Most Tech project  Melvin "the smart and caring bot" that assists people in dealing with emergency situations by pre-filtering non-urgent calls (false emergency calls) from "real-urgent" ones.  Our strategy was to work in close collaboration with the 112 services by digitalizing established pre-questionnaires or having calls diverted to Melvin after the 1-2 initial questions determining if phone calls are real or false emergencies. We thren pivoted to e-commerce and customer support via messaging applications  when we realized that institutional challenges and bureaucracy would make our project almost impossible to test and implement at scale.  We have been incubated in the Microsoft Innovation Center from bootstrap stage  with a SaaS (software as a service) prototype as a proof-of-concept  the pain and solution proposed  the technology and channel of communication (social media platform) and an initial revenue model.
07/2016	11/2019	RWANDA	GEEKALI	Entrepreneur and Solution Architect	As a freelance solutions architect  I bootstrapped a wide range of prototypes  including geolocation position systems (GPS)-based web apps that leverages on google  MapBox and/or ESRI API services -- autonomously or co-developed with partners based between Africa and Europe.
02/2015	11/2015	BELGIUM	GOOGLE	Technical Program Manager for EMEA Data Centers  Training Material Specialist	In this fixed-term role  I led the design  delivery and deployment in the EMEA region of the first Operational Qualification Standards programme for Operation teams aiming at upscaling staff skills through training (e-learning and on-the-job). Geolocation specific progress tracking ensured via analytics and visualization tools; sites' electrical and mechanical systems mapping designed via open source CAD tools.
03/2014	03/2015	USA	INTERNATIONAL SOS	Data Analyst  Project Management	Supporting the medical consulting business units in the America’s division with producing business intelligence reports on clients usage of the company’s services  leveraging on specific data processing (R  python  MS Excel) and visualization tools (GIS - Tableau or Plotly - for mapping. I also explored ways to improve internal reporting processes  supported the pandemic preparedness plans development (Ebola  Influenza) on both the technical (visualization + mapping) and business sides  as well as the division’s data migration to SharePoint.
01/2014	3/2014	PORTUGAL	LREC	Physics research engineer	Seismic Engineering and Metrology - Application of a Non-destructive Testing and Evaluation (NDT&E) technique in Civil Engineering  especially on wooden and concrete structures - Use of FLIR E40bx Camera and Imaging System - Infrared radiation (IR) thermography on Sao Miguel edifices
7/2013	12/2013	PORTUGAL	INOVA	Water quality laboratory technician	Leonardo Da Vinci Program  - Ensure implementation of the Quality Management System for compliance with quality standards (ISO 9377 - for Water quality  and ) and customer needs - Implement on food and water samples analytical methods (Extraction Liquid - Liquid & Gravimetry) for quality control based on the US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Method 1664. - Assist in internal quality audits.Ensure implementation of the Quality Management System for compliance with quality standards (ISO 9377 - for Water quality  and ) and customer needs. - Implement analytical methods for food and water (Extraction Liquid - Liquid & Gravimetry) based on US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Method 1664 and adapted to site requirements - Assist in regular CIP (Clean In Place) of lab equipements.
10/2011	10/2012	BELGIUM	CATERPILLAR	Senior Learning Consultant and EMEA CPS Master Trainer	Work on the deployment of the CPS Technical training offer (for assembler  machine-operator  welder) in EAME machining training  standardization of processes  the aim being to avoid rework and redundant quality checks by improving the Quality of products and Safety of employees  - Training in Machining and Assembly (machine operator qualified and Train the Trainer qualified) - Conduct Master Classes of the CPS Machine Operator Curriculum at the EAME Master Learning Center based in Belgium (Gosselies) and at Caterpillar facilities in UK  teaching Good Manufacturing Practices to workers  team leaders and foremen (Safety and Quality focus) - Assign curriculum class offer to designated employees  assess  evaluate and update learning status through CLMS (Caterpillar Learning Management System) - Support and develop CPS practices. Adapt training materials to shop floor needs and requirement - Deliver Instructor Lead Training (ILT): Standard Work  Chaste Waste & Process Improvement Dialog - Liaise with Caterpillar University as a subject-matter expert  technical documentation translation (English / French) or review of the bill of material (BoM) in compliance with EU regulation or technical requirements on site. - Training (as a learner and trainer) in: CPS Machining & CPS Assembly Qualification  Standard Work Environment  Basic Hydraulic  Root Cause and Corrective Action (RCCA)  Lean and 6 Sigma.
02/2011	06/2011	BELGIUM	SAINT JEAN CLINIC	Radiotherapy technologist trainee	Academic traineeships within the master thesis years  Radiotherapy department  Saint Jean Clinical « Quality Control in radiology: Link between exposure index and patient dose. Case of Fujifilm Imaging Phosphorus Plate » - Research; establishment of a plan of experiment - Test and Validation: radiation of Plexiglas ‘phantoms’ varying parameters  (thickness [cm]  tension [kV]  current [mA]) - Comparison of simulation results with real exam situation
07/2010	12/2010	BELGIUM	BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON	Money transfer expert	As Liquidity team member  Cash department: Back office operations on SWIFT system for subsidiaries clients  on behalf of BNY custodian bank. Liquidity books anticipation and reconciliation. Liaise with traders to providing the most accurate figures  according to deadlines for currencies exchange on the market.
07/2010	12/2010	BELGIUM	BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON	Money transfer expert	As Liquidity team member  Cash department: Back office operations on SWIFT system for subsidiaries clients  on behalf of BNY custodian bank. Liquidity books anticipation and reconciliation. Liaise with traders to providing the most accurate figures  according to deadlines for currencies exchange on the market.
02/2010	6/2010	BELGIUM	EGENCIA	Implementation manager assistant	- Customer implementation for the Benelux - Support in account management for Benelux - Support in client database management - Archiving
04/2009	06/2009	BELGIUM	FANC / AFCN	Environmental radioactivity research trainee	Academic traineeships within the Bachelor thesis years  Land Surveillance & Natural Ray Division  Federal Agency of Nuclear Control « Environmental Radioactivity: Radon  The Invisible Killer » - Participation in the Radon plan: Field trip  mapping  info sessions - Statistical data analysis  indoor radon measurement - Acknowledgement of the Directive 96/29 Euratom on protection against ionizing radiation Type of Business or Sector: Environment Agency  Nuclear
02/2007	08/2009	BELGIUM	AIESEC	VP Exchange dept	2007- 2009 - E.R (External Relation) and Exchange Department member - VP Exchange department: contact companies  selection of trainees (Incoming / Outgoing)  team management  seminars and training  2011: AIESEC ULB Alumni  As Vice-President of Exchange department at Aiesec ULB  Belgium  Tasks and Realizations: - Co leading an organization of about 90 members as Executive Board member - Responsibilities as active Exchange Relation member  then Exchange member  in the strategic and operative leadership of the 90 members of the organization - Responsibilities as Vice President of the Exchange department for managing the overall selection process of trainees (Incoming and Outgoing Exchange) in collaboration with my team (+- 10 people) - Ongoing training of the team members on recruitment methods  communication skills (words and body language for ex.) in order to make the process the most efficient as possible. The delivery being to have ideal candidates for great work opportunities in Belgium or abroad - Building partnerships with companies  NGOs and the public sector (if possible) - Work in partnership with Project  External (Corporate) Relation. and Finance department representatives - Co organizing team building activities with Talent Management department - Partnership with other committees (HUB  VUB) for Job Fairs and Outgoing Preparation Seminar (O.P.S.)